Welcome back everyone.
Let's now discuss semantics and word vectors but first in order to actually use spaces embedded word
vectors we must download the larger Spacey English models.
Full details about the models and as well as how to install them can be found at the link right here.
Space is the IO forward slash usage forward slash models.
Recall that when we first installed Spacey not only did we have to do an environmental install either
using content install or pip install but we also at the command line had to install the full English
language models.
Now if you went ahead and downloaded the default model that would be the small model and that actually
doesn't contain the word vectors because the word vectors themselves is actually a large enough piece
of data that Spacey has medium size and larger size models for that.
So in order to download either the medium or large space the English models at your command line you
need to type out Python space dash M. space Spacey space download space and then e n underscore core
underscore web underscore and then either M.D. for the medium English model or LG for the large spaces
English model and the difference with medium and large for the context of these lectures doesn't really
make a huge difference.
So you can choose either one.
I went ahead and downloaded the large English model.
Just keep in mind these are really large files so they may take a while to download.
So run either of these two lines at your command line in order to install the medium or large spacing
English models.
And again you can check out the link that usage slash models for full details on this installation process.
So now that you have the larger models that contain the actual word vectors let's discuss how word vectors
are created words of Vec is a two layer neural net that processes text its input as a text corpus and
its output is a set of vectors which are essentially just feature vectors for words in that corpus the
purpose and usefulness of where to Vec is to group the vectors of similar words together in this vector
space.
And that is it's able to the text similarities mathematically and we'll discuss that in further detail
in just a little bit.
But first try to understand that words of Vec is really just creating vectors that are distributed numerical
representations of words features features such as the context of individual words and what's really
interesting it's able to do all of this without any sort of human intervention.
It's just learning naturally from a very large corpus of texts.
The context of different words and which words are similar to other words so theoretically given enough
data usage and contexts.
So we're dealing for a really large corpus for example all of Wikipedia.
Once you feed that into the words civic algorithm words that can make highly accurate guesses about
a word's meaning based on past appearances and the context surrounding that particular word.
So those guesses can then be used to establish a words association with other words.
So after you actually train a word to model the vectors themselves will carry information and it's going
to be able to understand associations such as man is the boy as woman is the girl.
So while others understand that there's some sort of a relationship of age there that man and woman
tend to be the older words you use versus boy and girl tend to be the younger words you use now where
to Vec trains words against other words that neighbor them in the input corpus and a can actually do
this one of two ways either using context to predict a target word and it is known as a continuous backwards
approach or CB O W or C bow or the other method.
That's also common is using a word to predict a target context which is called Skip Graham so here we
see a diagram of the two possible approaches.
And basically the kind of inverse of each other for the CBO approach.
You have several input words and then your projection is essentially trying to predict what is the highest
probability word to show up.
Given the context of those surrounding words now the skip Graham method takes a little longer to train
and to develop because it's essentially doing the opposite given an input of a single word using the
auto encoder neural network projection try to output the weighted probabilities of the other words that
are going to show up around the context of this input word.
So again you have kind of two inverse methods here either given the context words and then predicting
the output word or inputting the word and then trying to predict the output context words so at the
end of all this.
Recall that each word is now going to be represented by a vector and in Spacey each of these vectors
has three hundred dimensions while you're actually trading training the auto encoder.
If you were to implement or to vector yourself.
Granted it takes a very long time on a very large corpus so it's unusual for people to actually not
use some sort of built in embedded word vectors.
But if you did want to actually train your own auto encoder for word to Vec then you could actually
theoretically choose either less or more dimensions.
Typically the ranges are between 100 to 1000 dimensions the higher number of dimensions the longer the
training time but you should have then more context around each of these words since you have more dimensions
to hold more information.
Now what this means is since we have each word mapped to a vector in this three hundred dimensional
space we can use cosine similarity to measure how similar word vectors are to each other.
So cosine similarity is essentially just checking the distance between two vectors.
And here we see a simple diagram in a two dimensional space.
But this expands out to end dimensions in our case.
We'll be taking several 300 dimensional vectors and then calculating the cosine similarity between them
to see what vectors are most similar to each other.
And in this case the actual vectors represent words.
Now what's really interesting is this means we can outperform vector arithmetic with the new word vectors
so we can calculate a brand new vector by performing arithmetic that is adding or subtracting different
vectors so I can take the vector that three hundred dimensional vector for King and then subtract the
vectors for man and then add the vector for a woman.
So that creates a brand new vector that's not actually directly associated with a single word.
Instead we performed an arithmetic between the vectors of several words and then when I can attempt
to do is find the most similar existing vectors to this new vector so hopefully after you do something
like King minus man policewoman that new vector its closest existing word vector could be something
like Queen.
Essentially understanding the context of royalty along one dimension and then moving along another dimension
for gender.
So this is able to actually establish really interesting relationships between the word vectors including
relationships between male versus female.
Like we just explained earlier or even dimensions for verb tense so I can understand that walking is
to walked as swimming is the swim so let's begin to explore Spacey word vectors with Python.
I'll see you at the next lecture.